= HasPassword

* http://github.com/jnicklas/has_password

== DESCRIPTION:

+has_password+ is a simple password-hashing abstraction for use in ActiveRecord models.
It is designed to be as simple as possible: it deals only with password handling, not
with authentication processes, controller code, generators etc.

To use it:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_password
  end

Your model should have +password_hash+ and +password_salt+ fields. Hashes are 256-bit
(64-char) SHA256 hashes. Your model will gain three methods:

<tt>user.password=(pwd)</tt>: sets the hash and salt values of user from the given
plain-text value pwd. The plain-text password is stored in +user+ while in memory but is
not persisted to the database.

<tt>user.password</tt> returns the current plain-text password if one has been set since
+user+ was pulled from the database. An object freshly pulled from the DB will return
+nil+ for this method.

<tt>user.has_password?(pwd)</tt>: returns true iff <tt>user</tt>’s plain-text password
is equal to +pwd+.

Finally, you get a callback in case you want to do stuff like send password confirmation
emails. In your model class, put, for example:

  after_password_change :send_notification

or

  after_password_change do |model|
    UserMailer::deliver_email_notification(model)
  end

In terms of validation, it automatically <tt>validates_confirmation_of :password</tt>
and checks supplied passwords for a few obvious silly phrases like, say, +password+ and
+test+. Passwords are only validated if +password+ is non-blank.

== INSTALL:

Grab it from GitHub

  sudo gem jnicklas-has_password -s http://gems.github.com

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 James Coglan, Jonas Nicklas

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.